---
author: klaus_herberth
---

After 14 month of hard work, we are extremly proud to announce the first public preview of JSXC 4.0. It's a total rewrite and brings 
you long-awaited features like OMEMO, MUC invitation, voice call, JID escaping, experimental multi account support 
and much more. The release is thought to collect feedback from administrators about APIs and the overall design. Please don't
use it in production yet!

This huge release will result in a lot of breaking changes, therefore we will explain you in the next sections how you can
install JSXC 4.0-alpha.1, which work has to be done until the stable release and which points are open for discussion. At the
end you find the preliminary change log and some screenshots.

## Installation
The installation is now a bit easier, but doesn't provide all options you know from JSXC 3.x. See the next 2 sections for details.

1. Download and extract the release archive to your web root.
2. Include the following files to your page:
  - `styles/jsxc.bundle.css`
  - `jsxc.bundle.js`
  - JQuery, JQuery UI (TODO still needed?), Bootstrap (TODO still needed?) (TODO version?)
3. If you like to use OMEMO, download [libsignal] and include `dist/libsignal-protocol.js`. (TODO elaborate more about license issue?)
4. Initilize JSXC with `jsxc.init()` and use either `jsxc.start()` or `jsxc.watchForm()`.

### Public API
REVIEW maybe move this to own wiki page, or use jsdoc
Our new API is now much cleaner and encapsulated. This means you can't call internal functions, like done before. Currently
we provide the following functions:

#### jsxc.init
Like before, you have to initilize JSXC with some options in order to use the application.

```
init(options: Options)

interface Options {
  TODO
}
```

#### jsxc.start
```
start(boshUrl: string, jid: string, sid: string, rid: string);
start(boshUrl: string, jid: string, password: string);
start();
```
TODO...

## Pending work
TODO: Options, 

## Discussion
TODO: discussion public API

## Change log
### Added
- OMEMO (XEP-0384)
- MUC invitation
    - [#341](https://github.com/jsxc/jsxc/issues/341) mediated invitation
    - direct invitation (XEP-0249)
- [#6](https://github.com/jsxc/jsxc/issues/6) voice only call
- [#501](https://github.com/jsxc/jsxc/issues/501) JID escaping (XEP-0106)
- [#178](https://github.com/jsxc/jsxc/issues/178) add inband password change (XEP-0077)
- insert emoticon at cursor position
- MUC subject in window header
- fullscreen layouts
- display presence messages
- allow to disable all plugins
- highlight quotations
- show notice if offline contacts are hidden
- prepare multi account support (still alpha)

### Fixed
- video calls in all tabs
- [#328](https://github.com/jsxc/jsxc/issues/328) MUC joining from any tab
- fix and improve emoticon insertion
- remove nonpersistent contacts after login
- translate OTR status messages

### Changed
- use Consistent Color Generation (XEP-0392)
- use more naturally bounce animation for notice

### Developer notes
- Typescript, Webpack, Handlebars, Karma, Mocha, Chai and Sinon
- remove `build` and `doc` folder, git submodules, bower and grunt
- share one XMPP connection across all tabs
- add plugin API
- form watcher instead of form option
- API to add roster menu entries
- use SASS guidelines and BEM-like style syntax

### Removed/Pending
- jingle file transfer
- bookmarks

## Screenshots
TODO

[libsignal]: https://github.com/signalapp/libsignal-protocol-javascript
